predicted-latency-routing: add TPU agentic-serving benchmark path (#1841)
llm-d/llm-d: guides/predicted-latency-routing/README.md

</details>

### 3. Run a benchmark

Two agentic code-generation workloads are provided, matched to the model server you deployed. Both have **high variance in prompt and completion length** — the regime where predicted-latency routing is designed to help.

Benchmark results are copied to a `workspace` directory on the machine running the CLI (auto-generated and printed in the logs if you don't pass `--workspace <YOUR_DIR_HERE>`).

> #### Case 1 — GPU · Qwen3-32B

Reviewer: @kaushikmitr @jjk-g the two cases run the benchmark differently, this uses llmdbenchmark directly the second uses a run_only.sh script, can we be consistent?

> Uses the dedicated [`guide_predicted-latency-routing_1.yaml`](https://github.com/llm-d/llm-d-benchmark/blob/main/workload/profiles/inference-perf/guide_predicted-latency-routing_1.yaml) `inference-perf` profile from `llm-d-benchmark`, parameterized on `CONCURRENCY_LEVEL` / `NUM_REQUESTS` / `SEED` — re-run per concurrency to build the ladder:

Reviewer: why a dedicated profile is being used?

Author: this is the code-generaiton workload (https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/inference-perf/blob/main/workload-catalog/code-generation/inference-perf.yaml) modified for qwen 32 context length.

Reviewer: ok, but this is being called `predicted-latency-routing_1.yaml`, the workload should be independent from the feature, so why not add multiple manifests under code-generation one for each model? @jjk-g fyi

    --model          "Qwen/Qwen3-32B" \
    --namespace      "${NAMESPACE}" \
    --harness        inference-perf \
    --workload       guide_predicted-latency-routing_1.yaml \
    --analyze
```

#### Case 2 — TPU · Qwen3-Coder-480B-A35B-Instruct-FP8 with KV-cache offloading

> Uses the agentic-serving guide's `inference-perf` workload, tuned for the 480B model and very long (up to 256K-token) contexts: [`guides/agentic-serving/benchmark-templates/guide.yaml`](../agentic-serving/benchmark-templates/guide.yaml). It is parameterized on `CONCURRENCY_LEVEL` / `NUM_REQUESTS` / `SEED`; render it with `envsubst` and drive it against **this guide's** EPP via the `run_only.sh` runner from [`llm-d-benchmark`](https://github.com/llm-d/llm-d-benchmark), exactly as in the [agentic-serving Benchmarking steps](../agentic-serving/agentic-code-generation.md#benchmarking):

Reviewer: why are we using a different benchmark here from the one we used for gpus?

Author: they are on different h/w and running different models. The agentic serving benchmark setup for qwen 480 on TPUs will not work for qwen 32 as it will exceed qwen 32s context length

```

> [!NOTE]
> Depending on your `cluster` you may need to extend the default `timeout` values to longer duration, as `bind`, `access` and `wait-timeout` times of `pvcs` and `pods` can be arbitrarily slower on other systems, please utilize `llmdbenchmark run --help` to view the knobs needed to increase those values.

## Benchmarking Report

### Code Generation (GPU · Qwen3-32B)

10 vLLM decode pods, tensor parallelism 2 (20 × H100 total), `Qwen/Qwen3-32B`, shared-prefix code-generation load (concurrency 10 → 100). Predicted-latency routing vs a plain Kubernetes Service (round-robin, no EPP).

<img src="./benchmark-results/code_generation_k8_vs_latency_predictor.png" width="900" alt="Code Generation: k8 vs latency-predictor">

**Summary.** Averaged over the ladder, predicted-latency routing delivered **+38% input** / **+40% output** throughput and cut **TTFT p50 by 13%** / **p90 by 47%** versus the plain Service. The gains concentrate in the tail (p90) and at mid-to-high concurrency, where queue depth alone is a poor proxy for true load — exactly the regime the predictor targets.

### Agentic Serving (TPU · Qwen3-Coder-480B-A35B-Instruct-FP8 with KV-cache offloading)

> 8 vLLM pods on Google TPU v7x (2x2x1), `Qwen/Qwen3-Coder-480B-A35B-Instruct-FP8` with KV-cache offloading, long-context agentic code-generation (dynamic prompts up to ~256K tokens). Predicted-latency routing vs a plain Kubernetes Service (round-robin, no EPP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8 vLLM model servers each running on a Google TPU v7x (2x2x1 host), `Qwen/Qwen3-Coder-480B-A35B-Instruct-FP8` with KV-cache offloading, long-context agentic code-generation (dynamic prompts up to ~256K tokens). Predicted-latency routing vs a plain Kubernetes Service (round-robin, no EPP).
```

```bash
# Fetch the existing-stack benchmark runner from llm-d-benchmark (the script the agentic-serving guide uses).
curl -L -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/llm-d/llm-d-benchmark/main/existing_stack/run_only.sh
chmod u+x run_only.sh

export IP=$(kubectl get service ${GUIDE_NAME}-epp -n ${NAMESPACE} -o jsonpath='{.spec.clusterIP}')
export CONCURRENCY_LEVEL=40
export NUM_REQUESTS=$((20 * CONCURRENCY_LEVEL))
export SEED=$((7 + CONCURRENCY_LEVEL))   # distinct per concurrency so prompt sets don't overlap across runs
envsubst < ${REPO_ROOT}/guides/agentic-serving/benchmark-templates/guide.yaml > config.yaml
./run_only.sh -c config.yaml -o ./results
```

> [!NOTE]
> Depending on your `cluster` you may need to extend the default `timeout` values to longer duration, as `bind`, `access` and `wait-timeout` times of `pvcs` and `pods` can be arbitrarily slower on other systems, please utilize `llmdbenchmark run --help` to view the knobs needed to increase those values.

## Benchmarking Report

### Code Generation (GPU · Qwen3-32B)

> 10 vLLM decode pods, tensor parallelism 2 (20 × H100 total), `Qwen/Qwen3-32B`, shared-prefix code-generation load (concurrency 10 → 100). Three configurations: a plain Kubernetes Service (round-robin, no EPP), the **token scorer** (token-load + prefix-affinity), and **predicted-latency** routing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10 vLLM decode servers, tensor parallelism 2 (20 × H100 total), `Qwen/Qwen3-32B`, shared-prefix code-generation load (concurrency 10 → 100). Three configurations: a plain Kubernetes Service (round-robin, no EPP), the **token scorer** (token-load + prefix-affinity), and **predicted-latency** routing.
```

<img src="./benchmark-results/code_generation_gpu_qwen32.png" width="900" alt="Code Generation GPU: k8 vs token scorer vs latency predictor">

**Summary.** Averaged over the ladder, predicted-latency routing delivered **+38% input** / **+40% output** throughput and cut **TTFT p50 by 13%** / **p90 by 47%** versus the plain Service. The gains concentrate in the tail (p90) and at mid-to-high concurrency, where queue depth alone is a poor proxy for true load — exactly the regime the predictor targets.

> [!NOTE]
> **Predicted-latency is comparable to the token scorer.** The two EPP routers land within ~1% on input throughput and ~2% on median TTFT across the ladder, both well ahead of the plain Service. They trade tails: the token scorer holds TTFT p90 slightly better (~13%), while predicted-latency holds TPOT far better — its p90 inter-token latency stays ~100ms versus the token scorer's ~950ms (**−89%**). So predicted-latency matches a well-tuned load/affinity router with no hand-tuned scoring weights, and keeps token generation smoother under load.

### Agentic Serving (TPU · Qwen3-Coder-480B-A35B-Instruct-FP8 with KV-cache offloading)

> 8 vLLM pods on Google TPU v7x (2x2x1), `Qwen/Qwen3-Coder-480B-A35B-Instruct-FP8` with KV-cache offloading, long-context agentic code-generation (dynamic prompts up to ~256K tokens). Three configurations: a plain Kubernetes Service (round-robin, no EPP), the [agentic-serving](../agentic-serving) **token scorer** (token-load + prefix-affinity), and **predicted-latency** routing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8 vLLM servers each running on a 2x2x1 Google TPU v7x host, `Qwen/Qwen3-Coder-480B-A35B-Instruct-FP8` with KV-cache offloading, long-context agentic code-generation (dynamic prompts up to ~256K tokens). Three configurations: a plain Kubernetes Service (round-robin, no EPP), the [agentic-serving](../agentic-serving) **token scorer** (token-load + prefix-affinity), and **predicted-latency** routing.
```
